Testing, testing A, B, C. Testing, testing January 31, CBA, CBA, testing CBA.
This is Thursday, January 31.
Have the pleasure of chatting with John Effinger, class of?
75.
75, one of the youngsters.
John, to help anybody understand your background, please give us a biographical summary of parents growing up, high school.
Tell us about everything you did before you came to A&M.
In 30 seconds or less.
No, it doesn't have to be real brief.
My parents are Jack and Sally Effinger.
Bo's still living.
Father's an attorney.
He's the only son and one of two children of a son of a German immigrant family that came into Medina-Hondo area.
His dad...
ended up being the postmaster for Alamo Heights post office in San Antonio and in 1927 he and his brother who was a construction person built their frame wood house in San Antonio that he ended up dying in lived all his life in after that so obviously a lot of German stock and core values there my mother
family came from Alabama her father passed away early in life but I knew her mother very well as well as my dad's father and her mother spent a good part of her young adult life in the Philippines yeah it's so fascinating getting a little bit of culture that way
I'm just a West Texas kid, grew up in Midland.
My father came back from Korea, served time in Judge Advocate General's Corps as a St.
Mary's graduate in San Antonio.
And he and my mom got married December 26, 1951 at the chapel at Fort Sam Houston and just had their 50th a couple of weeks ago, which we had a grand celebration on.
And he went off to Korea.
I was born at Fort Sills, spent all of about six weeks, came back and lived at Fort Sam most of my early years.
And then at six, we moved out to Midland.
Went to parochial school out in Midland through eighth grade.
We moved my ninth grade year.
Dad took a job in San Antonio.
The highlight of that wasn't so much high school because I went to three and four years.
Highlight was Hemisphere in 1968, which was outstanding.
We moved to Houston my junior year in high school.
While in San Antonio, I'd been in the ROTC program.
It made a major difference in my life, and a good friend of my mother's had a son that was a year ahead of me, and I came up my junior year to see what the Cork and Desk was like and fell in love with A&M and have never looked back and never thought about any place else.
So I came to A&M thinking, I'm going to be Army.
Didn't have to worry about a decree or anything else.
Didn't have to worry about late in life.
Just go through the Corps and I'll be set.
Spent four years in the Corps.
We'll get to that.
We're going to detail on that.
OK.
And let's see.
When you came up to visit, you were a junior?
Yeah.
Did you come by yourself or with somebody?
No, no.
We took, there was a class outing from a high school.
And we came up here, spent the day, watched the Corps march in, sat in Horseshoe.
Horseshoe was still there at that time.
And spent time in the dorm, got to get in the dorm.
And actually, since Tim Frazier was a freshman, I got a chance to see what it was like to see fish on the wall still.
One other quick note I just thought.
My dad has no idea what he did to err in life, but he has.
All three sons out of five of us are A&M graduates.
One's the sales manager that runs a small company in Houston.
My other brother's a doctor on the faculty at Southwestern Medical School and just was president of the faculty senate last year.
And he has a daughter-in-law, my wife Kathy, who's class of 76.
So he's done well by now.
Did you go to fish camp by chance?
No, never did.
All right.
When you came up to enroll, describe who brought you and what you brought with you.
Talk about that trip.
It was interesting.
Came up during the summertime.
knew that I wanted to get in the Corps, knew it was going to be the Army, had no thought about major, but I knew I wanted, at that time, wanted to make the Army career.
Ended up, the only thing I can truly remember about that two or three days here, aside from a lot of meetings and going across campus, was when you went to sign up for an outfit, and I knew that Tim Frazier had been
in the freshman class of an outfit called D2 the year before, brand new unit, a relatively new unit, I think.
And so I signed up for that thinking, well, that would be kind of a safe haven because he'd be a sophomore in my outfit, and little did I realize that that probably was not a smart idea at the time, but it turned out great because the outfit was terrific.
But that's really the only thing I can remember is signing up for D2 in that time frame.
But now you're coming up to begin the class.
Parents brought me up.
What did you have in your footlocker?
You know, I don't really remember, Haskell.
There wasn't a lot of stuff.
But we walked in the dorm and walked into the room right after Little East Texas going out a little.
And East Texas guy from Mount Pleasant had just moved in with his parents.
His parents brought him named Louie Gohmert.
Louie was my fish roommate.
G-O-M-M?
G-O-H-M-E-R-T.
Okay.
And so Louie and I started off the semester, and D2 was pretty strong about not bringing a lot up.
My senior year, we were still in freshman room or sophomore rooms.
Did D2 have a nickname?
Dog company, hell-bent canines, all or none.
Okay, and it was Army?
Army, Sacred Brigade.
Any particular group of majors?
At that time, predominantly liberal arts.
There was some ag in there, but mainly liberal arts.
All right, describe for me now as a beginner how you became oriented into and received into the corps.
Good times.
Let me set the stage.
D2, I think at that time, was in its second year of existence.
It had been formed when several units had been broken apart and reformed.
The year before I got there, it was, I think, 40th out of 40 outfits in general war.
And it was already on probation.
Now, there's a setup for that, because we did something really interesting as an outfit.
We had a Wild Bill White, who ended up being Airborne and Ranger, was our first sergeant.
So we got to know Bill White very well the first week and learned right when we got our first haircuts, some with hair down to their shoulders, what it was going to be like in D2.
There were 13 of us when we started.
But we had a week with Bill White.
under a little oversight by the seniors.
We had two terrific, we had a great CEO named Mike Thompson and an exo named Doug Blake.
But Bill really ran the show and it was focused.
It was, you guys are gonna shape up or ship out.
Now this is a week before classes begin.
This is a week before classes.
We learned to march.
We learned to hit the wall.
We learned all the things that a fish would learn.
And he was pretty tough, and one of the best things to happen.
This is the new.
Y'all are over and over.
Yeah, we were in dorm six, fourth stupid dorm six.
And interesting, this was the last year, Haskell, that you could walk across the campus
and fish were treated as fish campus-wide.
You know, they limited to the next year, you had to be in the quad.
So any trek out, we still moved in schools of fish, and particularly when we went to Northgate to get haircuts or anything else, we traveled in schools.
And it was not unusual to, in fact, Bill Broke is in pretty well.
We did lots of marches across campus to Cebesa for dinner that first week, because Duncan wasn't going.
And then we, lots of Northgate excursions, but all under constant supervision of Bill White.
During that week, describe a typical day's routine.
You got up and did what, when?
It started the night before.
We shined shoes every night.
Had to get a, there was, we didn't know what was happening as fish.
Obviously, you'd never know what the output wants to try to do.
But there was a real attention that we were going to not lose any points, didn't know what that meant, on inspections this semester.
And so there was an extreme focus on uniforms, how you wear the uniform, brass being shined all the time, hair being as short as you're going to get it.
rooms kept absolutely meticulous we we had no excess stuff if people came up with stereos those went back that first go around that I do remember bare rooms there was beginning focus on grades but it was really we will not lose any points on inspections room inspection personal appearance inspection
and then we will not lose any points on drills and reviews.
So we did lots of drilling and drilling and drilling.
And that first week, yes, lots of P2.
It started to window us out.
We lost a few that first week.
But there was a very, and the only way I can describe it, it was extreme focus on discipline and focus on what you were going to be doing in the Corps.
And there weren't many juniors and seniors.
No, the only ones I remember were Bill White and Mike Griswold, who were juniors.
The other juniors didn't come in until later.
And this is something we kept going through my sophomore, junior, senior years.
And the CO and the XO.
Sophomores weren't on campus until right at the end of that first week.
And, of course, we met them bright and early the second week.
All right, during that week, you got your outfit, you got your uniforms.
Right, learned where the laundry was, learned...
where Dunkin' was, but we weren't eating a Dunkin'.
We were still marching over to Cebiza.
I don't remember why, but we weren't in Dunkin' at that time.
Learned beginning campusology, hitting the wall.
We had Reveille in the dorm all four years.
So we learned what it was like to enter and see Reveille's paw sitting right outside the door still.
And after a while, if you got over the fact that you were hitting the wall for a dog,
you figured out, well, maybe there was a way, as a freshman would, to kind of get back a little bit at the dog.
And so we would go running down there en masse.
Of course, we didn't have restrictions on when you hit the wall during the day anymore at that time.
And we would just, all of us, pop up against the wall, how do you miss Reveley man real loud?
And she would then turn around and go back in the room, and we wouldn't have to hit the wall for Miss Reveley man anymore.
So E2 probably would not like that statement, but that was fun.
Now, did you acquire a nickname early?
I don't remember a nickname.
Describe your room.
Spartan.
It was really interesting.
It was Spartan with the exception of one thing.
Louis played a great guitar.
Allowed to have a guitar?
He brought it in halfway through the first semester.
He had it by the second semester because he was serenading
the younger sister of one of the juniors with the guitar, singing American Pie, which was a song back then.
But yeah, he brought it in halfway through, and I think he got it because he had such good grades after the first half of the first semester.
But Spartan, I mean, everything was military.
There was nothing extreme.
Two-level bunk?
Two-level bunk.
How did y'all decide who slept up and down?
I was a shorter guy, so I slept on top.
And Louie got the bottom bunk.
At least that's what I think we did.
In the future, I was always on the bottom bunk.
And no radio, no record player?
No radio, no cassette player at that time.
No car at that time.
Or at least I didn't.
I don't think any of us had cars at that time.
I dropped my VW, which I had at the...
In Houston, I brought that up second semester.
A bug?
67BW bug.
Remember Dean Powell?
I sold it to Dean Powell so his sons could have a dune bug.
And did you have any civilian clothing at all?
Very little.
I mean, it was all, I mean, if we had it, it would have been blue jeans and two shirts.
We really didn't bring very much up.
underwear, and that was about it.
We learned early on that we had to have an extra supply of toothbrushes, because we got real good at cleaning out the cracks in the towel, those kind of things.
But it was, I mean, it was very spartan.
The second or third day there, we had uniforms after we had them hung correctly
and we were inspected multiple times each day, and they had to be spaced correctly, couldn't be dust on the coat hangers or anything else.
I mean, it was, we learned that if we were going to pass inspections, we had to be very, very good at minimizing what could collect dust.
And how, you and your buddies, when you all got your hair cut, where?
We went to Northgate, and there were a lot of them that had long hair.
I mean, Warren Russell, who's now a colonel, had hair, we have,
How long was yours?
It wasn't that long, but it was probably collar length at that time.
When the haircut was done, how long was everybody's hair?
They were white walls.
We got white walls.
We didn't get gray.
It was all white.
Yeah, it was funny because I remember Warren particularly.
He had the longest hair, and they sent Warren in the chair, and he was first.
And the barber was one of the old military types, and he took the razor, and it just
true i mean he just came right back over the scalp and once that was gone everything went now did you all start calling each other old lady yeah yeah immediately yeah okay yeah yeah no problem with it yeah i mean it was we we uh there's one other thing that happened during that week too that was interesting the only time that i remember we talked with there are two times that we talked
uh with mike thompson who is the ceo this was in the this was september 71 or late august 71 so the first thing was no drugs no alcohol and and fairly strong it it it was uh
really a focus on what could happen to a cadet if you got into problems that way and then the second one was we had a meeting almost like a come to bill white meeting and and mike started it off bill actually led it it was a revival that was really on the corps ethics and and the corps cadet honor book and i think a lot of it was driven because we'd been 40th last year and the year before and they were talking about disbanding it there were some pretty rowdy people that had been in the outfit that year
Corps commander?
Tom Stanley.
No, Stanley was a sophomore.
No, it was Tom Stanley because Louis dropped handles with him.
Yeah, he was from Mount Pleasant.
And the commandant?
You know, I don't know that, but I don't think Parsons was there yet, but it may have been Parsons.
Okay.
And how long before you all saw the new president of A&M?
I didn't actually see the new president until...
Later in life.
I mean we knew who he was, but I wasn't very active in student activities at that time.
It was all D2.
Although I didn't meet Dean Hennigan a couple of times.
Describe that.
Dean Hennigan and I had some interesting times.
I remember going in halfway through my first semester and
in the academic building in his office, and he was already starting to worry about my grades.
My grades my first three semesters were not something to write home without at all.
Very tenuous.
But he was good about it and talked sternly.
And there's a piece in my sophomore year I'll get back to that was rather interesting that helped him.
All right, you what high school now?
Aldine.
Aldine High School in Houston.
All right, then you're going to major in?
At that time, it wouldn't have been liberal arts.
It would have been history.
I think it was history.
It may have been poli-sci.
All right, describe how you signed up for that first semester of classes.
I don't even remember.
I do remember we went.
And I don't remember what building.
It wasn't the building that was the old bookstore.
But we went somewhere.
It may have been Dunkin', and maybe that's why we weren't eating in Dunkin', to sign up there.
But that part's blur.
I mean, my memories of the first two years at A&M revolve around one thing and virtually one thing only.
And that wasn't even the Corps Cadet.
It was D2.
Did anybody give y'all advice before you went to class or as you're beginning classes about how to survive and how to?
No.
That happened as we got into the first semester.
How did it come about?
Describe that.
We didn't know the reason at that time.
But we got at least into the first half of the first semester.
And all of a sudden, we moved from real attention on military discipline and unit type stuff to grades.
Got to have the GPs.
And then that moved by the time we got to that to end the second semester index of grade activity.
So grades came in.
There was a major push.
Study hours.
We started doing a lot of things with study hours.
I think even before some of the other units in our brigade and certainly within our back did.
Mike was real keen on that.
And Doug Blake wasn't really the scholastic officer.
But Doug had, rumor has it, Doug actually played football as a freshman.
He was a great big old guy.
He'd make a perfect lineman or defensive lineman offense.
But quite individual, kind of like the gentle bear.
And he really took on the role of grades.
And as we started to get GPs in, we could see that some of our class were struggling.
started to work on how to really start to focus on grades, but the attention still was pretty much military stuff.
Do you remember some of those first semester classes?
at the house i sometimes i don't want to remember my school but describe going to class and learning the routine of college that was my problem i didn't go to class that much you know i was here to get the core connect education i didn't know what an agreement did you skip class no i skipped class way too much and what did you where were you when classes were being held oh where'd you hang out we were we were talking
core stuff, D2 stuff, how we would do things different the next year, how we'd help out some of our buds that were having problems.
A lot of time evading upperclassmen just to find some quiet places.
There were a couple of classes that interest me, and I would do a lot of reading, but I never generated GPs like I should have.
Military science a lot, that kind of stuff.
We spent a lot of time that first semester, early morning runs,
when we weren't supposed to be doing it, I don't think.
Lots out to Eastwood and back.
Interesting times doing PT.
We never had the board, but we had a lot of PT and pretty extreme PT and physical training.
Okay.
What time would you all make those runs?
Five in the morning, four in the morning.
Not on school days, although there were a couple of school days.
Early Saturday mornings out to Eastwood.
Lots.
Had a couple of rangers in the outfit, and that was kind of... Right.
When you went to class, describe your routine.
Where did you sit?
Did you take notes?
I wasn't a very good student in high school, so I'd sit in the back of the room.
Didn't know how at that time to talk to professors.
Didn't know how to try to stay plugged in when I was missing things.
probably there was a lot of aversion when my grades started to come in and they weren't as good as they ought to be there was a lot of avoidance and so if I didn't go to class then it was out of mind in the near term of course then it caught up to you when you took tests and finals it was it was it was
Literally, my first two years, I remember not having something that I really enjoyed from schoolwork, but I loved McCourt.
All right, let's go to the chow hall.
Describe the routine of your outfit at chow.
Obviously, we marched in after rigorous inspections, whether we were inspected by somebody outside the outfit or not.
Freshmen didn't eat very much the first semester, not till we had our outfit party in November.
Always served hot corner at that time.
Lots of milk drinking contests.
Had more milk than we could think of what to do with in the glass jars at that time.
Lots of running, I don't remember what we used to call them.
They weren't really far enough, but it was light that to other outfits.
Lots of quads.
That's another thing that we did a lot early in the mornings.
We'd take people to the quad.
So, you know, juniors would send a junior, seniors would send a senior.
Sometimes it was in the outfit.
Generally, it was people outside the outfit.
And so we'd take them, get them up early in the morning before first call, take them out, trash them out with water from the forest stoop and other ingredients, depending on the level of the exercise and those kind of things.
And then what punishment would you all get in return for that prank?
Didn't get any.
Oh, really?
No.
We weren't yelled at as much if we did a good job.
Oh, okay.
These were not from your outfit?
No, they were generally going outside the outfit.
There was very little inside the outfit.
It was pretty tight, which is unusual, because I think that our senior class, and I know our junior class, was pretty large.
All right, how did you all keep other outfits from doing the same to your upperclassmen?
You know, I don't know how that happened, but they didn't get, I mean, I'm sure they got quieted, but I don't have any, and maybe that's because we were doing so many, we were,
they were getting retaliated at.
But we got pretty good at what we did.
We could get into a room even if it was pretty well locked.
Back in the dining hall, what kind of games, tricks, pranks did y'all play during the meal?
Flying buzzards would be, well, we did lots of milk contests.
How many of the, I think there were quarts at that time, how many quarts of milk could you drink
before you literally almost exploded.
And we would have hot dog eating contests when we had hot dog nights and never got to eat steak on Wednesday night, even though steak was the entree.
We never got it.
It always got some of the classmen, upperclassmen got it.
Got lots of scrabble eggs for some reason.
Don't ask me why.
That was the only thing that was left there.
We generally didn't eat because we were doing all sorts of stuff, either campusology or contests before the upperclassmen left.
And a couple of flying buzzards, which is, and we didn't have a guy near as good as some of the outfits, but
You'd take stuff like scrambled eggs and mashed potatoes, something really gooey, and pack it just into a guy's mouth, and then he'd make like a buzzard, and he'd go seek out his prey, and he'd get right up to his prey, and all over the uniform and that kind of stuff.
But pretty easy stuff.
Nothing really bad.
They were real focused, I think, on having fun and doing things, but not doing it to that part we didn't do extremely.
What Cush questions, what are your favorite that you remember?
You know, I don't even remember back then.
I don't remember any.
OK.
Then as.
Maybe because we didn't eat a lot of kush.
As football season is coming around.
Oh, yeah.
Campusology at the wazoo.
Had to know everything about everything about everything.
And.
We had to know the team too deep.
And of course, this was Gene Stallings last year.
So there was a real incentive to know the team too deep.
Describe the routine of a game day for a freshman.
Because we still had Saturday classes.
Yeah, we actually put up the flags a lot.
And I don't remember classes on Saturdays, but we always, I think there were three times at least, if not more, we had flag detail on the main drive, which was really cool.
That was a neat experience.
Because I mean, they marched, primarily it was all freshmen, and we marched out and put the flags up along the main drive coming into the main administration building.
In later years, I remember it more because we would always go out and get uniforms at the off-campus cleaners.
But it was getting uniform ready.
Because we didn't have cars and there weren't girls living on campus, we didn't have any dates, really.
I was, quote, engaged to a girl in Houston.
She would come up.
She came up for a couple of games.
And so you had the ritual of going out to Eastgate and meeting the bus.
And literally, the whole bus was girls coming up from Houston and points between.
and and you would find places for them to stay in some of the motels that were all within walking distance and that kind of stuff uh long walks obviously but uh the first couple of uh games it was all the focus was we will not lose uh we want high rankings on our march ins even if they were the practice ones at that time so i mean it was it was a pretty spartan existence at that stage
Then you all marched in, you stood with your outfit.
Stood with the outfit, marched in, and survived to getting back.
Midnight Yale practice, you were always with your fish buds, never got outside that group.
And we had Yale practices, I think, on Thursday or Wednesday nights in the evenings as well.
We'd go to the old job dorm.
We'd march from the quad and go there.
And so, march isn't the right word, but we'd troop behind and get there.
But... Did you see or hear Gene Stallings that fall?
The only recollection I have of Gene is when he had dinner in Duncan Dining Hall after he was let go.
It was his last dinner in the Corps.
And the only reason I remember that one is that Reveille, literally...
you know i like gene i met him much later in life and talked to and he talked to our some of our former student group uh and current students uh but rev got right next to the table he was sitting at a core table and immediately decided it was time that she needed to uh to use a restroom and dropped a load right there
next to him, next to the table.
And that poor E2 cadet turned her around and he's pulling her literally back and she's just laying down the aisle.
And of course, everybody went ballistic and I feel sorry for him at that stage.
But of course, you know, the couple of times we had girls up there, we were kissing on first downs, which were you and far between, so there wasn't any real love lost.
Then, let's see, you're in your uniform.
What did you and your buddies do after the games, football games?
Oh, things that we probably weren't really supposed to be able to do.
Every once in a while, we figured out where we could find some beer, and we were still underage at that time.
Didn't drink a lot, but there was some.
A lot of, I mean, we really didn't get out that much.
We did a lot of walking wherever we went because we didn't have cars.
No nightlife at that time to speak of.
So we would go find some place to just sit and talk, but that was about it.
Yeah, we did pick up a bad habit then.
We had this crazy game.
Maybe one of those things we edit sometimes.
Do you know how close you have to be to see the numbers on a train at night before you get off?
So we did some pretty stupid things, too.
So we would get out on a well-worn highway, and we would stand on the tracks and wait for the train and stand there until you could see the numbers.
And it was chicken to see who got off last.
So yeah, but again, we had airborne rangers in our outfit.
Some of our guys became airborne rangers.
That was one of those things we did that was stupid.
That's how we spent a lot of our time.
But yeah, there was probably a lot of beer out there, too, just to get about it.
Now, underage, where did y'all get the beer?
Northgate.
There was a 7-Eleven, a store like a 7-Eleven.
And they would sell to underage.
How often did... It depended on who bought it and whether you had a growth on your... Obviously, we didn't have beers, but if you look like you could be older...
There were guys in other outfits that actually had IDs.
And one of our guys, we had a great big old guy named Ed Guerrero, and Ed was pretty good at getting beer.
So we'd get a couple.
Where would y'all go to drink it?
Wellborn Road.
We'd find somebody that had a vehicle.
We'd all pile into it if we had to make two or three times.
And generally what we'd do is go out Wellborn and then back over the railroad track, which is how we started doing the railroad track deal, into a cattle gate and just sit up there.
How often did somebody get drunk?
Well, if they were cheap drunk, pretty quick.
A lot.
There weren't a lot.